---
layout: post
title: COSI Distributed Computing October 6th
author: Benjamin Lannon
---

Today the first meeting for the Beowulf Cluster took place. We planned out our
goal of creating a computing cluster that would be able to be used by anyone on
campus (including Mathematics and Data Analytics Graduate Students). The group
decided that it would be good to first use a prexisting framework for an initial
cluster and then work on our own system to be able to understand distributed
computing further.

Baha gave a high level understanding on why we need distributed computing. Since
we have a limitation of resources both with hardware and funding for high
performance computing, we can use the computers in the ITL to be able to cheaply
make a high performance machine.

Meetings are going to be continuing every Tuesday at 6:00pm. That said, for anyone
who was at the meeting, or is still interested and were unable to make it, it would
be reasonable for people to look into the idea of distributed computing. At the end
of this post, I am including things such as a paper on MapReduce and a link to
Apache Hadoop, a service we can be able to use for the cluster. Also, if anyone
finds anything that would be useful for the project, if you have a name for the
cluster, or if you have any other questions, email [Benjamin Lannon](mailto:lannonbr@clarkson.edu)
with the beginning of the subject be either CDC or Computing Cluster.

See everyone next Tuesday!

##### Links:

- Google MapReduce Paper: [MapReduce](http://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/en//archive/mapreduce-osdi04.pdf)
- Apache Hadoop: [Hadoop](http://hadoop.apache.org/)
